Know there's one other thing I want to do in this module which is not really related to responsive
design but more to making it look good on mobile devices. In our application,
I'll switch back to the iPhone here, a little bit more room,
if we click this button, we just get this modal here which simply is lying across our whole screen.
Now wouldn't it be nicer if that would slide up, like you know it from real mobile devices?
Well we can do that, adding animations is something you definitely want to consider in your application
because just like here where this slides out and slides back in, these really are the tiny things
that provide an awesome user experience and make your web app feel like a real native mobile app and
we can actually easily provide an animation for this effect here.
Let's go back to our code and let's identify what we have to animate. In the index.html file
in the public folder,
there this modal is actually this create post div here. In this div, I have these text fields using
the material design lite components and we would need to animate this whole div to simply slide
up instead of just be there.
Now if we have a look at how it gets there, we have to look at the feed.js
file, there all the way at the top we have that open create post modal method.
That's the method which in the end is executed when we click the plus and there I simply set the style
to block, the display style,
this is there to unhide it, to show it basically.
Now all we have to do here is actually change not only the the display style to block but also animate it, basically
move it
and for that I'll start with the initial state which I'll also animate here in my feed.css
file.
This is the create post selector for that div and there, I want to add two properties.
The first property I'll add is transform which allows us to transform it,
for example move it and I move it on the Y-axis,
so up and down with translateY
and here I will use 100vh which is view height,
so that basically is depending on the screen you're looking at it, the full height of the given screen.
Now if you have a look at the browser support for vh and the other port units which are in the
same category, it's pretty good. If we have a look at the known issues, we see there are some issues with
some browsers
but generally it should work fine on most browsers. If you don't want to use vh though,
you can also work around that by using 100%, though
then you need to make sure that all elements wrapping create post, like for example main also set their
height to 100%,
so that's the alternative then.
Now since I'm setting the min-height here with 100vh too, I'll stick to vh here too,
just wanted to throw that browser support thing and the possibility of moving to percentages
also into the room.
So that's one thing,
we're moving it down,
this already has one important implication.
If we go back to our application and we clear the storage and reload to apply our updated style, as
always going online first, if I click this button here now, whoops I canceled that update,
you see we don't see it here because now the item will be there but it slides down,
we can just see it here in the element inspector create post.
It is visible, display none is disabled
bu it slides all the way down
and if I change this value here to for example 50, we see it's slowly coming up and this exactly is the
animation we want to play here, right, have it slide all the way to the top.
Well maybe not in the negative area though,
just 20.
So this is what we want to do,
now how do we play this animation?
We can take advantage of the transition property in CSS which allows us to animate a given property
over time, so we can animate the transform property over 300 milliseconds.
So whatever transform changes,
so for example if we ever change this here, then it will be animated and not instantly changed.
Well with that, we know what we have to do, right?
We just have to go to feed.js where we show it and also change the transform value.
So here, create post area gives us access to that element,
we have to change style and then change the style transform to translateY
zero
which is the position we want to end in.
Now if we save that and we go to application, clear the storage and I reload our application and click this
button, you'll see it still instantly appears.
Now there's a reason for that. In our code
we set this to block and then we instantly also set this.
The problem just is the animation will not be played because it doesn't recognize that it should play
it because it doesn't recognize the block is actually assigned before, it does this in the same
step basically
and for that reason, it does not play the animation because it doesn't think that the item is visible
anyways.
Now here's a simple workaround which will work on basically all browsers. We can use set
timeout here to basically wait for, only one millisecond should be enough, in the function which then is called,
so which is basically almost immediately after setting this style to block, we then animate it by changing
the transform style.
Now this is enough to make CSS aware that
these are two different steps and not happening in the same step.
So with this in place, if I now go back to application and clear the storage and I reload this,
now if I click this, we actually see it slide up. We still dismiss it instantly though and on
the second time we try to open it, there is no animation.
The reason for this is that we never set the state back,
we never animate back.
Well to do that, all we have to do is we actually have to go to close create post modal, where I set the
style to none and reverse the whole procedure.
So here, I can basically say create posts area, style transform and set this equal to translateY
and then just what we had here in feed.css, 100vh which will move it down by 100 viewport units
on the height axis,
so the Y-axis. Now just as before,
I want to make sure that this animation plays first before we then disable it.
Now actually we don't even have to do this whole none thing here,
you will see it also works
if I comment this out because it will be outside of the viewport anyways.
So if I reload this application here and clear the storage first to take my updated style file, you'll
see it slide up, slide down, slide up, slide down and so on.
Now you could still use the other trick
and use set timeout here, though here you would have to wait for this animation to finish,
so set timeout to 300 milliseconds since that's the duration of our animation
but it also works like that.
And yes of course also means that we can theoretically turn disable none off here, whoops
we're inside a CSS file though and that we can also get rid of our trick up here because we don't
even need to change the display style,
we can just use the transform.
Now let's save this and try it one final time,
clear the site data, remove this and now we see it slide up and down and up and down
and this looks much better.
Now we will continue working on this modal later in the course
but with that, we got a nice responsive application with a nice animation.